all right nice to see you guys tonight
uh sam couldn't have given me a better
introduction and he didn't even do it on
purpose but i'm going to talk all about
sales and marketing alignment
specifically with sdrs um in addition to
our sales team so uh my goal today is to
give you guys a good mix of the
foundation and the aspiration of account
based marketing uh but to get a read of
the room how many of you here are
thinking about starting an account based
strategy or know what it is as opposed
to have already started
okay for your number how many of you are
actually executing on an account-based
strategy
okay cool so it's not a pretty good mix
so to give you a little bit of an intro
of where i sit in the organization what
we do
i am the head of account based marketing
at snowflake i have a team of 15 people
in north america dedicated to abm i also
have a counterpart in apac building a
team there as well as amia
we really sit under the demand gen
organization yet so have a demand and
org separate so uh jackie kyler is a
head of demand gender snowflake she's my
colleague reporting in to the vp of
demand as well
my team in north america works with
about 200 scr's and 200 sales reps and
we run 2200 campaigns each quarter
dedicated to the accounts that our sales
reps choose so we cover about 30 of all
named accounts in north america
[Music]
i really like to think of account based
marketing at snowflake it's integrated
abm whereas a lot of people will jump
straight to tactics we really think
about flipping the funnel so this is
your traditional lead funnel that you
see on the screen and this is an account
based funnel where we start with who we
want to go after work on nurturing
engaging building a relationship
converting and then growing you can see
in the middle i put an arrow for mindset
shift because part of it
is an actual change in strategy but a
lot of it is a change in how we think
about marketing how we think about our
prospects and what relationships we
build with our prospects instead of just
an interaction or a transaction
so you can see here we have to start at
the top identifying who we're going to
go after in a very intelligent way and
the key to all of this is snowflake is a
really really tight integration with our
sale development team and our sales team
so we have to be in lockstep every step
of the way and later i'm going to show
you some metrics of what this actually
creates down funnel
so getting started is we have to create
infrastructure
for hyper growth before we can jump
straight to those tactics a lot of
people will jump in and say i'm gonna do
account based marketing i'm gonna throw
a company name on my ad i'm gonna throw
a specific industry on my ad and then
i'm gonna have sales do whatever we need
to actually take a step backward
first identify what are the accounts we
should be going after so we're actually
going to start with first party data it
snowflake we use website visitors we use
campaign responders so anyone who filled
out a form what data do you have
available about the people that you're
targeting
and then we also have third party data
right so we have intent uh intent for
those of you who aren't familiar yet is
they have
groups of publishers on other websites
you can subscribe to topics related to
the goods that you sell so understanding
what your target accounts are surging on
have abnormal buying activity on outside
of your site they might be in the middle
of the buying cycle and you don't even
know it because they haven't made it to
your first party site and then we also
have technographic firmographic
everything else right so are they using
the
vendor of your competitor are they
using something that you partner with
how can we get that other technographic
from a graphic data
you can see on the right hand side of
the screen just for context here this is
an example of what somebody in an
account based marketing campaign at
snowflake would experience the content
is curated based off those different
data points you see on the left what
pages have they visited was it about
data science they might get data science
content do we know that they're working
with a specific competitor they're going
to get content about competing with that
specific competitor do we know they're
working with one of our gsis or tech
partners does any content about that as
well so it's going to feel very natural
when they experience it
before we actually start targeting the
accounts we really need to understand
our personas right so you see it i've
been marketing mary i just made them
very generic for the sake of this
presentation
but too often marketing is sitting in
their cubicle or their open floor plan
with their personas and sales and sales
enablement are sitting with their
personas and they're not connected so we
need to make sure that do we agree
between sales and marketing what the
problems are
that each of our personas are
experiencing do we also agree what the
value add is so when you're doing your
marketing efforts your emails your
events everything there
are sales saying the same thing to the
same people are you actually sending
conflicting messages to your same buyers
once we get this sorted out and we truly
understand how do we impact our fursona
not just at work but do we save them
time that they can have dinner at home
with their family more often do they get
to take the vacation because they're not
so stressed are they going to hit their
targets and exceed their quota we have
to talk to them as humans
not just
as
b2b people right they're humans
this becomes the foundation
for your abm approach we have to know
who we're talking to and what they care
about before we can then market to them
so this is what i call my magic matrix
once we develop who these people are
literally create a table on google
slides in powerpoint in excel wherever
it might be and list those out you can
do it by persona you can do it by
solution you can do it by industry
whatever segmentation you're using at
this point or this time uh you can list
them out here so the first thing why
should they care right it doesn't have
to be polished it doesn't have to be
fancy ad copy why should they care about
what you're doing
and then what are the intent keywords
the seo keywords what are the things
that you think that they would be
looking for to solve that problem that
you're helping them solve uh then i
start developing ad copy what is the ad
copy and this starts connecting to your
sdr motion right what are the case
studies that relate to it what is the
link to the sequence this becomes your
source of truth that then you can hand
to your sdr team you can hand to your
sales team to align so that when they're
sending out a sequence they're sending
out the same case study that you are
um
this
is the starting point but you can
continue to add complexity so if you
think about copying and pasting this
adding extra rows adding extra pieces
you can add complexity per different
industries personas et cetera
i also added another little aspirational
inspirational piece here for you as well
we actually take all of these inputs and
create little puzzle pieces of sorts and
create custom one-to-one content for
most of our abm campaigns that means
that the piece of content that brex may
get from us is going to be so specific
to them in fact they might have multiple
pieces of content one for each persona
that we're selling to within that
company
and we serve this we have content
experience on our website that they they
can see sales can print it sdr's can
print it and actually hand it physically
should we ever end up in a physical room
together um post open
uh so then we think about what's next
we've identified our personas we thought
about what the messaging is how we're
going to put it together we now need to
think about our funnel stages obviously
hopefully we're all familiar with the
top middle and bottom of a funnel but i
actually prefer this terminology which
is problem education right instead of
top of the tunnel do they know what the
problem is that you're trying to help
them solve are they aware that they need
to solve it before we go further we need
to know that they know that they have a
problem second is solution research so
have they started researching how to
solve that problem and then solution
selection have they actually selected a
solution in your solution therefore
on the downward column
if we've already created content for
each of these three stages for it ivan
we can use it across our different
marketing channels so too often
marketers are creating a piece of
content here a piece of content there a
blog here thought leadership right we
have all this content and sales is still
coming to us saying hey i want more
content like well what about the content
that we created if we're working with
sales getting their feedback on our
topic counts of what content they need
and putting it across the funnel we
think then can put that in an email drip
three part email drip top middle bottom
we can uh do social snippets so break it
down into little little pieces we can
put it in our ads and we can also
connect it to our prospecting sequences
when you do this you now have content
that you can reuse over and over and
over replicating your message across all
three stages
that's when we think about converting
uh so then we think about how does an
actual account based sales development
motion happen so lars nilsson uh is a
friend of sastor he is our fearless
leader of sales development at snowflake
and he was kind enough to let me share
his methodology here with you guys today
uh buzz likes to say the most important
thing in account based sales development
is the subject line so in this example
we did research on the leader of this
organization anybody receiving this
email would immediately recognize this
name
after the subject line the second is the
hook right why should they care we've
done research about this individual
about this organization so that when you
receive this we understand the company
next is the after scenario
if you read this email if you connect
with us how is it going to help you i
mentioned in the beginning how we can
help the human not just the company how
will it help them personally
uh we then go to positive business
outcome if you take this if we do this
let's discuss what your organization is
going to look like after
and then we have the call to action are
you available tuesday or wednesday are
you available at 2pm give them the
opportunity to say yes as opposed to
having to fight to find the right time
going back and forth we're all busy none
of us want to sit there and go back and
forth to find a time
uh he's also generous enough to let me
share actual sequences so the what i
just showed you is the first step of 14
in a sequence so every opportunity you
have to talk to your prospect is an
opportunity to share your brand so like
i mentioned we've already talked about
what the message is going to be across
as what the message is going to be in a
case study what's going to be
in the different content or thought
leadership it's another opportunity to
touch on that so that all the touches
become familiar
um then we're going to tie it all
together and i'll go ahead and build
this out we have a little glitch there
the most important part of account based
marketing at snowflake is this first
column every two weeks the abmer the ae
and the sdr sit down and talk about who
they're targeting
we come to the table with data to help
them choose that list and then we take
their feedback as well so it could be
they've been targeting an account for
several weeks several months several
years we often get accounts they've been
going after for two years and haven't
gotten into
and we'll talk about who should we go
after next how are we going to do it
what is the message and we're aligned in
that way
we next prioritize based off the data we
have we use bombora as a tool that we
live and swear by to help us understand
what they might be interested in we then
target them with ads and a content
experience like you can see on the
screen it's a little bit difficult to
see here but you can see these are
labeled with comcast if you were to take
comcast off that ad you would actually
still know us for comcast if you worked
there the actual ad copy is developed in
response to what they're going through
with their business
the uh imagery is media and technology
and relates to the exact persona and age
demographic if they're in a business
suit versus sitting at a computer all of
that is crafted to create the look and
feel
the experience you can see there's a
note from the rep the rep hand writes a
note for the account we're going after
so that when they land on this page it
has a link and says hey thanks for
coming here's what i'm trying to share
with you here's an opportunity to book a
meeting with me or email me directly if
you're interested
so we're getting very very personal
the last step is actually the sdr motion
so you look at the title warm calling
this is a term that somebody at our
organization in the sdr team actually
came up with he responded to me said hey
hillary i'm no longer cold calling i'm
warm calling because account based
marketing has already introduced
snowflake it's already taught them about
the message when i call they're warm
they know who we are they know why i'm
calling the message is consistent
and we see incredible results from it so
at the start of the pandemic we
introduce not only sequences that align
right so we know if they're surging in
this topic if they're this persona we
already have the sequence written we
just connect a b and c if i'm an str i
know exactly what i need to do i have my
14 touches i know who i'm reaching out
to and i have my research
we introduced an e-gift card as well at
the time we used doordash
to help put money back into the local
economy and said hey let's let's talk
over lunch and we saw our numbers go up
from that
on the right hand side you can see
measure i purposely didn't include
metrics here because a lot of people
struggle with how to measure account
based marketing
how do you know it works there's a lot
of influence and it can be difficult to
capture but what we do is lift if an sdr
or a salesperson is going after a set of
accounts they deemed as important how
likely are they to get into it with our
help or without our help can measure the
lift in meeting completed opportunity
rate deal size etc
when we do that
um we are consistently seeing 4x our sdr
benchmark now this is at the sdr
benchmark outside the company with
somebody else this is a year ago when
our scr's were calling and trying to
sell snowflake they were getting into x
number of accounts consistently quarter
of a quarter we quadrupled that working
together
if you knew that for your sdrs they were
going to have a completed meeting for
one out of four accounts they targeted
would you consider doing an account
based marketing strategy
would you consider aligning your team so
that you were all talking about the same
thing to the same people at the same
time when you know the timing is right
in addition from the lead funnel
perspective right leads still matter i
know there's a lot of change going on in
the industry but we are seeing 3x the
number of leads in account based
marketing accounts
again these are the accounts that are
harder to get into they're larger
they're just more difficult so seeing
these numbers really really meaningful
uh 80 increase in acv an average of 34
percent meeting rate for one to one
we've seen it go up from there uh
something to mention here as well i
talked about intent for selecting
accounts
the last round we did with this uh we
had one sales leader say hey i just want
to go after a separate set of counts i
just need your support there we said
great right we work for sales whatever
you need they experience the 14 meeting
rate our highest meeting rate in that
same cohort was 60
so sometimes we think as sales leaders
we know exactly what to go after and
sales leaders do know a lot but when we
work with marketing to understand the
data we can be better together
a couple more stats for you here we had
our rbps select our top five accounts we
went after them for eight months
together we got meetings and 100 of them
one of them in the last week of the
program we generated over 200 meetings
over 40 sqls 29 of them are sourced from
sdrs these accounts were selected for
what i call my room the vacuum cleaner
method
which is hey they're hard as a rock
they're cold out they're cold if we try
to walk through a door we'll most likely
run into it and get balanced out the
other way but what does a room a vacuum
cleaner do if it runs into a wall
right it goes into another one and it
just keeps going and then it goes down
the hallway so when you think about
these massive accounts 80 subsidiaries
many lines of businesses we want to be
room to vacuum cleaners if we need to
get in we're going to find our way in if
we get stuck we're going to change our
builder we're going to keep going
um next up uh we have insane insane
meeting rates basically and we maximize
the use of our marketing materials we're
minimizing the waste of things being
created that aren't being used and
getting into the hands
of the folks who are actually doing the
selling
i also wanted to touch briefly won't
spend much time here but life cycle abm
what happens after the opportunity is
created
where do we go from there we keep
working accounts if the sales team wants
us to so do you have a champion at one
account that is in the same industry
that you can do an account based program
and put them in an event to speak
together account do you have an account
that has ten subsidiaries you're in one
you need to get the other nine use that
person as your speaker on the event for
the other nine subsidiaries
that went one passed there
also multithreading how do you get into
multiple lines of businesses at the same
time using multiple strategies so we
will have one
campaign so to say but we'll have five
different messages going to five
different personas and five different
lines of businesses and then what
happens is they start talking it starts
crossing and we call it the snowball
effect right that's those uh accounts
i'm just talking about
and then user groups and trainings when
you have your champions leverage them to
teach others and that's that expansion
portion
i did want to give a peep into our tech
stack i do know we have a huge blessing
that we have the tech staff we do my
advice to you is start with what you can
tools won't solve your problems smart
people and strategies will hire smart
people to use the tools for the way that
you need them to work
oh sorry
go ahead
focus on how you can add value
how can you actually help them not what
do you want to push to them not what
your sales team just want to sell how
can you help your prospects uh the next
is keep it relevant so we often talk
about personalization personalization is
really important but it's really
relevancy when you log into netflix and
the movies and tv shows are there
waiting for you with scores of what to
watch right it's relevant you don't have
to think hard we want our prospects not
to have to think hard it's sitting there
waiting for them to consume
and then think about serving the right
contact content to maximize impact i
mentioned before
how can we use our resources in the
smartest way to deliver what we need and
then the last thing is be flexible what
works for snowflake may not work for you
but you can take ideas and tweak them
and try one thing and bounce off of that
it's all a learning process
and i always say this is my thing find
one advocate you don't need this whole
sales team or the whole marketing team
to be willing to work with you need to
find one person
uh my previous company i guess i should
mention i did not do avian as my main
job i found one person who wanted to do
it and we built an entire program from
the ground up snowflake we started with
five people and have grown to 15 we'll
be 18 by the next quarter so find that
one out of the kit create one win
let that person share their win with
another person and all of a sudden your
program's going to start building
and sales people want to hit their quota
and if they can make it easier make make
their quota easier what's going to
happen your program is going to grow
so that's my top takeaways and we're
going to take some questions uh from
here
you've mentioned a few tactics one of
the first things i want to dig into is
like what have you found works the best
right because you guys have like a
14-step sequence right it's email it's
linkedin it's ads it's targeting like
have you seen anything that's a sweet
spot that works really well like one
email then a phone call like you guys
change up that sequence like what works
the best yeah the recipe i showed uh
during that portion of i can go back um
that recipe is our bread and butter
right so within that you can exchange
out the different content the different
um
the different messages etc but it's
really that that peace we don't want to
call somebody every day we don't want to
email them every day we want it to feel
natural and i think one way it would
describe me before is like we have more
account intelligence than we ever did
but if you were going on a date and you
went on facebook and like saw that
someone like blue roses uh then you
would walk up to them on your first date
and like have them a blue rose and be
like hi nice to meet you but you
wouldn't walk up and say hi here's a
blue rose i actually found it on
facebook from 2013. and i hope you like
it right so it's the same concept when
we're having all those touches we want
to be subtle we want to like um like the
content that they're sharing bump it
comment on it etc engage with it so that
it doesn't feel creepy yeah on that
point actually that's a good point have
you had any str i'm gonna wait for the
plane
okay it's gone it's leaving okay um have
you had any sdrs like when they're first
starting to do abm do something where
you're like that's like is there a line
where like that's too personal and
creepy like don't use that in your
outreach
i think anybody in the sdr world sales
world every marketing whatever right
we've all made mistakes and we all need
coaching and it's an opportunity to keep
coaching uh for them in their careers
sdr's are the biggest sales pipe talent
pipeline in our organization so yeah
it's an opportunity for coaching and uh
they can help make each other the best
for learning together yeah
what's the right
mix uh or what's the right number of
accounts per rep that you've found right
because i know many of the audience when
you were pulling them at the beginning
said they were either starting out or
mid like mid funnel and starting their
abm efforts like what's the right number
of accounts that you would recommend
yeah you guys i'm really passionate
about this the right number of accounts
is the number that you can do well okay
so to go do more accounts to have a
larger number you're going to dilute
your resources across your sales team
find the number you can do well and
build a little bit at a time there's no
pride to be taken and going full gusto
right off the bat there's a ton of pride
to be taken to have a really strong
relationship with your sales team that
they trust you and that you're the first
person they're coming to in the
marketing organization to get into the
accounts they care about that will take
you way further than any number so start
small build a little bit of time we've
done a couple we're like okay that's too
many we can't do that many right and
i'll scale back so it's all
all the learning that makes sense um
when you're doing this for different
size companies maybe doing it more for
enterprise accounts
um
do you attack it with multiple
stakeholders or do you do apm just like
one person per company or do you try and
do like five people as you go enterprise
like what's the right mix there yeah so
it depends what tools you're using um
and i there's a mix right so something
like linkedin if you're gonna use
linkedin for targeting they have a
minimum audience size of 300. so we're
going to have to adapt our message for
that that cohort of people and now if
you have an sdr they're going to be
going one to one for the most part the
sequence that i showed you guys went to
30 individuals at the same company and
was relevant to all 30.
if you need to go after a cio for
example we have one that we've gone
after we know that she loved post-it
notes and we know that she was really
passionate about her kids um being
involved in stem for her do you create
custom post-it notes with your logo on
it right do you give her stem kits for
her kids that there's a spectrum of
relevancy and personalization that you
have to find what you have the resources
in time for and what's worth it right so
you okay so you go kind of deeper when
it's a more enterprise company you do
more than one person yeah okay so one
thing i wanted to ask because i know
a lot of marketers we've seen move
accounts a lot of stakeholders are
moving accounts quicker than ever these
days like how do you adjust for that
when you're like mid-sequence and you're
like oh shoot that person just left like
they were super engaged and then now
they're gone like do you follow due to
avm at their new company do
what do you yeah do you want in someone
else i mean i would do both right if i
have someone that's been engaged and
they're going to another target company
then heck yeah i'm going to send them a
kit with snowflake swag and say hey
welcome can't wait to continue the
conversation when you're ready we're
here for you here's a gift card for when
you're working late your first week i
don't know something like that um but we
should be multi-threading right uh the
again the sequence that i showed you
guys went out to 30 people nine people
responded three meetings were created so
we we need to be talking multiple people
because what happens like sixty seventy
percent of the buying cycle is done
outside of the room with the sales
person so we wanna be um inspiring those
conversations right we'll go so far as
to say hey once there's an open
opportunity we're going to target the
cfo because he's the one that's signing
the paper so we don't want that
signature to be the first time he's
heard of snowflake right so you can
actually go as wide as your buying
center your decision makers go
okay that's uh that's insightful maybe
kind of the last questions is you try
how your your revenue team meets twice a
week right like how do you make sure
sales and marketing is on the same page
right like that they're agreeing on the
accounts that they're agreeing on the
messaging like if sales is constantly
asking for new content like when do you
decide that you create it versus having
them use what's already there yeah we
meet bi-weekly but at the end of the day
we lead with data right i gave you that
example of somebody going after accounts
uh that had no data to back them up
fourteen percent meeting rate those that
did have up to a 60 meeting rate it's
data so we do it right we work with
sales sometimes it's hard to measure but
sometimes you have to do it see how it
performs and say hey somebody in this
region had this success let's try it and
our sales people are constantly asking
us how do i stack up
what's everyone else doing
am i doing okay right like really
exactly they're competitive
so we use the wins from other teams to
help guide that and then sometimes we
just have to help them with their need
because they know their market and
that's our job to support them not fair
okay so last question um
as our founders and community scales up
what's your final advice for as they're
scaling their abm program be willing to
fail
try it fail fast if it doesn't work for
you use the learnings and move on and
try something else you know your market
better than anybody else use data
and uh have grace because there's a lot
of judgment in the abm world and we
don't need that we just need to do
really cool marketing and make it work
really well to help our sales team all
right miami please give a big round of
applause for hillary for coming all this
way
[Music]
you